@node ax_lua
@unnumberedsec ax_lua

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_WITH_LUA
AX_PROG_LUA [(MIN-VERSION, [TOO-BIG-VERSION])]
AX_LUA_HEADERS
AX_LUA_HEADERS_VERSION (MIN-VERSION, [TOO-BIG-VERSION])
AX_LUA_LIBS
AX_LUA_READLINE
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Detect Lua interpreter, headers and libraries, optionally enforcing a
particular range of versions. If only one version is given, then exactly
this version is required.

AX_WITH_LUA searches for a Lua interpreter and defines LUA if found.

AX_PROG_LUA searches for a Lua interpreter in the given version range,
if any (at least MIN-VERSION and less than TOO-BIG-VERSION, if given),
and defines LUA if found, or stops with an error if not. Versions are
given in the same format as output by the Lua interpreter, and may be
just a prefix, e.g. "5.1.4", "5.2" or "5".

AX_LUA_HEADERS searches for Lua headers and defines HAVE_LUA_H and
HAVE_LUALIB_H if found, and defines LUA_INCLUDE to the preprocessor
flags needed, if any.

AX_LUA_HEADERS_VERSION checks that the Lua headers' version is at least
MIN-VERSION, and less than TOO-BIG-VERSION, if given. Versions are given
in the same format as LUA_VERSION_NUM in lua.h), e.g. 501 for Lua 5.1.
The revision (e.g. the "3" in "5.1.3") is ignored.

AX_LUA_LIBS searches for Lua libraries and defines LUA_LIB if found.

AX_LUA_READLINE configures Lua to be built with readline support, if
available. This macro requires AX_LIB_READLINE.

The following options are added by these macros:

@smallexample
  --with-lua-suffix=ARG     Lua binaries and library files are
                            suffixed with ARG.
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_lua.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_lua.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_lua.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2012 Reuben Thomas @email{rrt@@sc3d.org}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Matthieu Moy @email{Matthieu.Moy@@imag.fr}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Tom Payne @email{twpayne@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
